---
layout: default
title:  "SPARTA"
date:   2016-07-21 12:00:00 -0400
categories: professional
---

Co-founded, developed, and held leadership roles within an organization supporting active duty transgender service members and veterans.
<br/>
<br/>

[SPARTA](https://spartapride.org/) membership recently passed 660+ people. Scaling - while maintaining mission effectiveness and cohesion - equired the development of bylaws, establishing leadership structure, and developing mentorship and morale programs. Programs included one-on-one mentorship pairings, morale events, a fitness group and consequent fitness challenges. Supported senior leadership and more visible members in advocacy roles. Changed military policy. 

Lobbied in Washington D.C., published op-eds in the [Advocate](https://www.advocate.com/commentary/2015/08/18/op-ed-mike-huckabees-revival-social-experiment-fallacy) and [Washington Post](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-nation/wp/2017/07/27/i-am-a-transgender-veteran-the-military-gave-me-refuge-after-i-fled-my-conservative-hometown/?utm_term=.b7483a855ebd). 



Directly mentored:
 * 200+ service members
 * 60+ future enlistees
 * 10 veterans to date
  
Indirectly supported and mentored:
 * 660 service members
 * 170+ future enlistees
 * 420+ veterans to improve professional outcomes and college admission rates
  
  
As Directing Chair of Veterans Support Committee, I created, managed, and worked with veterans, active duty, and civilians to build a comprehensive veterans resource database. This resource has been shared with over 21,000 veterans to date. 
I am currently coordinating a partnership between LGBTQ military and veterans organizations to ensure maintenance and continued development of database, improve outreach, and expand user base. I am dedicated to supporting post-military success. 

As the Crisis Intervention Manager, I designed and implemented a crisis management system. It was staffed entirely by volunteers, which required recruiting and training 20 individuals in four countries to support 660 members. In order to maintain this system, I then negotiated a partnership with Trans Lifeline to develop an all volunteer, professionally trained, crisis hotline. Saved lives. 

Ultimately changed military policy to better include and retain transgender service members and new recruits.


2012 - Present
